# Governance

The purpose of this document is to formalize the governance process used by the
installer project in both ordinary and extraordinary situations, and to clarify
how decisions are made and how the various elements of our community interact,
including the relationship between open source collaborative development and
work that may be funded by for-profit or non-profit entities.

## Summary

Installer is a community-owned and community-run project. To the maximum extent
possible, decisions about project direction are made by community consensus.

## Governance and leadership model

The foundations of project governance are:

- Openness & transparency
- Active collaboration

This governance model serves as the formalization of what we are already doing,
rather than a change in direction.

### BDFL

The projectÂ has a BDFL (Benevolent Dictator for Life), which is currently
Pradyun Gedam. As Dictator, the BDFL has the authority to make all final
decisions for the project. As Benevolent, the BDFL, in practice chooses to defer
that authority to the consensus of the community discussion. It is expected that
the BDFL will only infrequently assert their final authority.

The BDFL has full authority to shut down unproductive discussions, ideas, and
proposals, when it is clear that the proposal runs counter to the long-term
vision for the project. This is done with compassion for the advocates of the
change, but with the health and well-being of all community members in mind. A
toxic discussion on a dead-end proposal does no one any good, and they can be
terminated by fiat.

## Changing the Governance document

Changes to the governance document is submitted via a GitHub pull request.

**The discussion phase** begins when the person first opens a pull-request.
During this time, the pull-request MUST be in a draft state. The pull request is
refined in response to public comment and review, with the goal being consensus
in the community.

The pull request author may call for a decision when they believe enough
feedback and iteration has occurred. This is triggered by moving the pull
request from the draft state to an active state. When the PR enters an active
state, the proposed changes in the pull request are frozen and may not be
substantively modified.

**The decision** is taken by the BDFL, who has ultimate authority in the
project, for accepting or rejecting changes. The BDFL may choose to reject a
governance change while it's still in the discussion phase.

## License

To the extent possible under law, the authors have waived all copyright and
related or neighboring rights to the installer project governance and
decision-making document, as per the [CC-0 public domain dedication /
license][license].

## Acknowledgements

This governance document is borrows from the the excellent documents that the
Jupyter project and the Python project have considered/adopted for describing
their governance models ([link][jupyter-governance], [link][python-governance]).

[jupyter-governance]: https://jupyter.org/governance/governance.html
[license]: https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
[python-governance]: https://peps.python.org/pep-8000/
